h1. ruby in java, java in ruby, jruby or ruby java bridge

Q: What are you supposed to use in your ruby/jruby/java application?

A: It depends!

h2. requirements

This project requires MRI and "JRuby":http://jruby.org, so you should be "using RVM":http://blog.nofail.de/2010/01/xruby-on-the-mac/.

"buildr":http://buildr.apache.org/ is used as a build tool:

<pre>
rvm use jruby
gem install buildr
</pre>

"RJB":http://rjb.rubyforge.org/ is required as a gem for MRI (no JRuby support):

<pre>
rvm use 1.8.7
export JAVA_HOME=/Library/Java/Home
gem install rjb
</pre>

Tested on OS X Snow Leopard only!

h2. calling examples

You will have to execute the examples differently:

<pre>
rvm use jruby
ruby lib/jruby.rb

rvm use 1.8.7
ruby lib/rjb.rb
</pre>

h2. buildr

The "Java tests":http://github.com/phoet/ruby-java-jruby-rjb/blob/master/src/test/java/de/nofail/jruby/ can be executed with buildr:

<pre>
rvm use jruby
buildr clean test
</pre>

Buildr provides an eclipse integration:

<pre>
rvm use jruby
# update .project get dependencies and create .classpath
buildr eclipse
# download artifact sources
artifacts:sources
</pre>

h2. resources

* Groovy Docs - "Dynamic language beans in Spring":http://groovy.codehaus.org/Dynamic+language+beans+in+Spring
* Spring Docs - "Dynamic language support":http://static.springsource.org/spring/docs/3.0.2.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/html/dynamic-language.html
* yokolet's notelets - "RedBridge, what are new and improved in JRuby 1.5.0RC1":http://yokolet.blogspot.com/2010/04/redbridge-what-are-new-and-improved-in.html
* "Mavenrepository":http://mavenrepository.com/
* "Findjar":http://findjar.com/
